README.md, before:

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- powershell
products:
- azure
- azure-powershell
- azure-resource-manager-templates
- azure-storage
- azure-cdn
- github-actions
description: "Sample project to demonstrate the ability to host a static webpage, fronted by Azure CDN."
---

# Static Website POC

<!-- 
Guidelines on README format: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/help/onboard/admin/samples/concepts/readme-template?branch=master

Guidance on onboarding samples to docs.microsoft.com/samples: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/help/onboard/admin/samples/process/onboarding?branch=master

Taxonomies for products and languages: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/new-hope/information-architecture/metadata/taxonomies?branch=master
-->

A small project to show how to host a static website out of Azure Storage, fronted by Azure CDN. The infrastructure is deployed via a powershell deployment script and Azure Resource Manager templates.  This project also includes the GitHub Actions yaml file to enable CI/CD workflows for this project.

## Contents

| File/folder       | Description                                |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `.github/`        | GitHub Actions workflows.                  |
| `arm-templates/`   | Static Site Infrastructure ARM Template.  |
| `site-contents/` | Static website contents. `index.html` and `errorPage.html`.|
| `.gitignore`      | Define what to ignore at commit time.      |
| `deploy.ps1`      | PowerShell script to deploy static site.   |
| `deployParams.json`| Deployment parameters used by `deploy.ps1` and `teardown.ps1` scripts.|
| `README.md`       | This README file.                          |
| `teardown.ps1`    | PowerShell script to decommission the website. Makes testing and experimentation easy.|
| `CHANGELOG.md`    | List of changes to the sample. COMING SOON!|
| `CONTRIBUTING.md` | Guidelines for contributing to the sample. COMING SOON!|
| `LICENSE`         | The license for the sample. COMING SOON!   |


## What does this actually deploy??

- **Azure Storage Account**
    - Static Site Enabled
    - Deployed via ARM

- **Static Website Content**
    - Packaged and deployed via Azure DevOps
    - Simple site for demo purposes

- **Integrate with Azure CDN**
    - CDN Profile
    - CDN Endpoint established
    - Compression Enabled

- **GitHub Action**
    - Included YAML file 
    - Configure environment secrets to use

## Running this Project

### Steps to deploy infrastructure
- Clone/Fork repo down to local machine
- Fill in your variable values in `deployParams.json` file, make sure to save
- Run `deploy.ps1` from project root
    - Script will spit out the CDN endpoint of the deployed site, browse to the provided URL to verify deployment.
- After infrastructure deployment is complete, you can configure your GitHub Action for CI/CD functionality (covered below)


### Setting up GitHub Actions
This project contains the `main.yml` file which will allow for the static site content to be deployed via Github Actions. The GitHub Action will login to Azure, upload static site contents to `$web` container in the defined storage account. This action will also flush the CDN Endpoints to ensure they all pick up the newest changes upon deployment. The Github Actions `main.yml` file has been written to use GitHub Secrets to keep the template flexible. You will need to add the following secrets to your GitHub Repo:

**REQUIRED GITHUB SECRETS:**
- AZURE_STATICSITE_CREDENTIALS
    - You will need to create a Service Principal for GitHub Actions to use to auth against Azure and upload the static site content
    - Examples here: [Deploying Static Site to Azure with Github Actions]('https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-static-site-github-actions')
- CDN_ENDPOINT_NAME
    - Name of the CDN Endpoint you want to flush when deploying new site content
- CDN_PROFILE_NAME
    - Name of the CDN Profile associated with your static site
- RESOURCE_GROUP
    - Name of the Resource Group the Storage Account is deployed to.
- STATICSITE_SOURCE
    - Path to static site content. In this repo it is `'site-contents/'`
- STATICSITE_STGACCT
    - Name of Storage Accout to deploy to

### Steps to tear down the deployment
- Run `teardown.ps1` from project root
    - Script will use values from the `deployParams.json` file

Commit message:

Updated README to communicate that deploy.ps1 will output the necessary secrets to put into your GitHub Env.

README.md, after:

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- powershell
products:
- azure
- azure-powershell
- azure-resource-manager-templates
- azure-storage
- azure-cdn
- github-actions
description: "Sample project to demonstrate the ability to host a static webpage, fronted by Azure CDN."
---

# Static Website POC

<!-- 
Guidelines on README format: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/help/onboard/admin/samples/concepts/readme-template?branch=master

Guidance on onboarding samples to docs.microsoft.com/samples: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/help/onboard/admin/samples/process/onboarding?branch=master

Taxonomies for products and languages: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/new-hope/information-architecture/metadata/taxonomies?branch=master
-->

A small project to show how to host a static website out of Azure Storage, fronted by Azure CDN. The infrastructure is deployed via a powershell deployment script and Azure Resource Manager templates.  This project also includes the GitHub Actions yaml file to enable CI/CD workflows for this project.

## Contents

| File/folder       | Description                                |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `.github/`        | GitHub Actions workflows.                  |
| `arm-templates/`   | Static Site Infrastructure ARM Template.  |
| `site-contents/` | Static website contents. `index.html` and `errorPage.html`.|
| `.gitignore`      | Define what to ignore at commit time.      |
| `deploy.ps1`      | PowerShell script to deploy static site.   |
| `deployParams.json`| Deployment parameters used by `deploy.ps1` and `teardown.ps1` scripts.|
| `README.md`       | This README file.                          |
| `teardown.ps1`    | PowerShell script to decommission the website. Makes testing and experimentation easy.|
| `CHANGELOG.md`    | List of changes to the sample. COMING SOON!|
| `CONTRIBUTING.md` | Guidelines for contributing to the sample. COMING SOON!|
| `LICENSE`         | The license for the sample. COMING SOON!   |


## What does this actually deploy??

- **Azure Storage Account**
    - Static Site Enabled
    - Deployed via ARM

- **Static Website Content**
    - Packaged and deployed via Azure DevOps
    - Simple site for demo purposes

- **Integrate with Azure CDN**
    - CDN Profile
    - CDN Endpoint established
    - Compression Enabled

- **GitHub Action**
    - Included YAML file 
    - Configure environment secrets to use

## Running this Project

### Steps to deploy infrastructure
- Clone/Fork repo down to local machine
- Fill in your variable values in `deployParams.json` file, make sure to save
- Run `deploy.ps1` from project root
    - Script will spit out the CDN endpoint of the deployed site, browse to the provided URL to verify deployment.
- After infrastructure deployment is complete, you can configure your GitHub Action for CI/CD functionality (covered below)


### Setting up GitHub Actions
This project contains the `main.yml` file which will allow for the static site content to be deployed via Github Actions. The GitHub Action will login to Azure, upload static site contents to `$web` container in the defined storage account. This action will also flush the CDN Endpoints to ensure they all pick up the newest changes upon deployment. The Github Actions `main.yml` file has been written to use GitHub Secrets to keep the template flexible. You will need to add the following secrets to your GitHub Repo (They will be output to the console after running the `deploy.ps1` script):

**REQUIRED GITHUB SECRETS:**
- AZURE_STATICSITE_CREDENTIALS
    - You will need to create a Service Principal for GitHub Actions to use to auth against Azure and upload the static site content
    - Examples here: [Deploying Static Site to Azure with Github Actions]('https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-static-site-github-actions')
- CDN_ENDPOINT_NAME
    - Name of the CDN Endpoint you want to flush when deploying new site content
- CDN_PROFILE_NAME
    - Name of the CDN Profile associated with your static site
- RESOURCE_GROUP
    - Name of the Resource Group the Storage Account is deployed to.
- STATICSITE_SOURCE
    - Path to static site content. In this repo it is `'site-contents/'`
- STATICSITE_STGACCT
    - Name of Storage Accout to deploy to

### Steps to tear down the deployment
- Run `teardown.ps1` from project root
    - Script will use values from the `deployParams.json` file
